Some helpful hints: 

Modular Design: Break down your application into logical modules.

Reusability: By using modules, you can easily reuse code. 

Maintainability: With modular code, making changes or updates becomes simpler and less risky.

Testing: Testing modules independently becomes more straightforward. You can write and run tests for each module to ensure its functionality before integrating it into the main system.

Importing Modules: Use the import statement to include modules in your main application script. 

Directory Structure: Organize your modules in a clear directory structure.

Naming Conventions: Follow Python naming conventions for your modules. Typically, module names should be lowercase with underscores to improve readability (e.g., smart_device.py).

Documenting Modules: Provide documentation for each module. A brief comment at the beginning of each module explaining its purpose and functionality can be very helpful.
By adhering to a modular approach, your solutions for the assignments will not only be more effective and efficient but also align with industry standards. This practice will prepare you for larger-scale projects in your programming career.



1. Encapsulation in Personal Budget Management
Objective: The aim of this assignment is to reinforce the understanding of encapsulation in Python, focusing on the use of private attributes and getters and setters.

Problem Statement: You are required to build a Personal Budget Management application. The application will manage budget categories like food, entertainment, utilities, etc., ensuring that budget details remain private and are accessed or modified through public methods.

Task 1: Define Budget Category Class 

    - Create a class `BudgetCategory` with private attributes for category name and allocated budget. 

    - Initialize these attributes in the constructor.

    - Expected Outcome: A `BudgetCategory` class capable of storing category details securely.

Task 2: Implement Getters and Setters 

    - Write getter and setter methods for both the category name and the allocated budget. 

    - Ensure that the setter methods include validation (e.g., budget should be a positive number).

    - Expected Outcome: Methods that allow controlled access and modification of the private attributes, with validation checks in place.

Task 3: Add Budget Functionality 

    -Implement a method to add expenses to a category and adjust the budget accordingly. 

    - Validate the expense amount before making deductions from the budget.

    - Expected Outcome: Ability to track expenses per category and update the remaining budget safely.

Task 4: Display Budget Details 

    - Create a method to display the details of a budget category, including the name, allocated budget, and remaining budget after expenses.

    - Expected Outcome: Users can view a summary of each budget category, showcasing encapsulation in action.

Code Examples:

class BudgetCategory:
    # Constructor and private attributes
    # ...

    # Getters and setters for category name and budget
    # ...

    def add_expense(self, amount):
        # Method to add an expense to the category
        # ...

    def display_category_summary(self):
        # Method to display the budget category details
        # ...

food_category = BudgetCategory("Food", 500)
food_category.add_expense(100)
food_category.display_category_summary()
